Early
Forma of
Belial.

-—

Gen. ιΙί. 193
xvh la

Gen. ari. 10.
gerra. xx.

li Phralascnan THEOLOGY.

contribution3 they were amalgamated successively by the
Gnostic schools, and eventually all met in the Valentinian

theor .
Aybrief review of the earlier forms of religione belief

so far as Histmy, whether Sacred or Profane, has revealed
them to us, will enable the reader to judge of the cor·
rectness of this view,

Before Abraham was chosen to be the especial guardian
of the truth‚ we may trace the existence of a primitive
theology upon earth. hlelchizedek, most probably of the
raee of Shem, whose genealogy coincided with that of
Abraham in some ancestral link, was a Preacher of nighte
ousness and Priest of the Most High (sod, and he ex-
pressed doctrines that, without doubt, were handed down
from a more ancient source. Are we to imagine that the
same truths were altogether hidden from other collateral
branches of the same widely spreading stock3 such as the
children of Elam, and Aram, and Asshur, the J oktanidae of
the Arab coasts, or the Shemitic dispersion of the days
of ¹Peleg?

If we follow the patriarch Abraham in his descent to
Egypt, we observe clearly that the primitive traditione of
the Asiatic had not yet wholly evaporated. They still
possessed in direct descent, a fragmentary ray of the re·
ligious light inherited by the sons of Noah; for we cannot
fail to be struck with the similarity of saith iu funda·
mental verities, that brought Abrabam and the Egyptian
king into closer relations than could have subsisted without
it. Their intercourse was established upon the immutable
basis of justice and truth3 whilst Hagar, the Egyptian
handmaid of Sarah, confessed faith in sn All-wisc Deity,
and was favoured with an angelic vision and message.
Abimelech also, king of Gerar of the Philistinae, gave
evidence of his belief in one God, and expressed himself
in a religious point of view very much as the patriarch

 

