THE LIFE AND WRITINGS

012

S. IRENAEUS, Α

mesot> 012 mons IN enula

*—

Tua materiale for a life of S. Irenaeus, that have come

down to us, are very scanty. We know little else forttl

certain, than that be was Bishop of Lyons in Gaul, during
the latter quanter of the second century. And this dotum,
vague as it may be, gives a probable reference to the
country of his birth. For circumstances shew that a cer·
tain connexion existed between the Church over which he
presided aud the East. The Greek names of its first
Bisbops iudicate this origin; the account also of the per-
secution of the Church of Lyons an. 177, under Marcus
Aurelius, in which its venerable Bishop Pothinus suffered
martyrdom, was transmitted, not to Rome, but to the
churcbes of Asia. So also the acquaintance manifested by
Irenaeus with Eastern languages, involving not only a re·
spectable knowledge of tbe Hebrew tongue, but also a very
perceptible familiarity with the Scriptures of tbe New
Testament in Syriae, point directly to the same conclusion;
and even the name Εἰρηναῖος, of no common occurrence in
Greek nomenclatore, may have been the substitute for
some Syrian equivalent‚ as Saul became Paul, and as the
orientally descended philosopher Malcho, became known by
the adopted name of Porphyry, the more obvious equiva-
lent, Basileidea, having already been appropriated by a
predecessor from the Ecst. Consistently with this, lrenaeus

Os Orien·
extrac-
tion.

..—

 

